README.md, before:

# goserve
## A very simple http static file server

### Build & Install

#### ~Install via npm~

**Not available atm.**

```bash
npm i -D goserve
```

#### Build yourself

Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ncpa0cpl/goserve
```

Build the binary

```bash
go build -o ./goserve
```

Install the program in your PATH
Copy the binary to a bin directory (assuming `~/.local/bin` is in your PATH)

```bash
cp ./goserve ~/.local/bin
```

### Usage

```
Usage: goserve [options] [directory]

Options:
  --help              Print this help message.
  --loglevel <level>  The log level. Default: info
  --port <port>       The port to serve on. Default: 8080
  --redirect <url>    Redirect all unmatched routes to a specified url.

Hot Module Reload
  --aw           Alias for '--watch --auto-reload'
  --watch        When enabled, server will send fs events when files are changed. To listen to these add event listeners to `window.HMR` on client side.
  --auto-reload  Automatically inject a script to html files that will reload the page on a 'watch' change event.

Caching
  --maxage <seconds>   The max-age value to set in the Cache-Control header.
  --nocache            Disable caching.
  --noetag             Disable ETag generation.
  --cache:max <MB>     Maximum size of all files in the cache. Default: 100MB
  --cache:flimit <MB>  Maximum size of single file that can be put in cache. Default: 10MB
```

To serve files from the `public` directory of the current directory on port 8000:

```bash
goserve --port 8000 ./public
```

### Auto-reload

When auto-reload is enabled, either via `--auto-reload` or `--aw` flag, a script tag will be injected to every ".html" file that will reload the page every time that file is changed. Note that the `--auto-reload` flag must be used alongside the `--watch` flag.

### Watch mode

When watch mode is enabled, either via `--watch` or `--aw` flag, to every ".html" file a script tag will be injected enabling listening to file changes within the hosted directory.

Listening to these changes can be done by adding event listeners to `window.HMR` object:

```javascript
HMR.onChange((event) => {
  console.log(`file ${event.file} has changed`);
});

HMR.onCreate((event) => {
  console.log(`file ${event.file} has been created`);
});

HMR.onDelete((event) => {
  console.log(`file ${event.file} has been deleted`);
});

HMR.onRename((event) => {
  console.log(`file ${event.oldFile} has been renamed to ${event.file}`);
});

HMR.onCurrentPageChange((event) => {
  console.log(`current page's file has changed`);
});
```

Commit message:

feat: added node api, html comments to injected code and fixed arg parsing

README.md, after:

# goserve
## A very simple http static file server

### Build & Install

#### ~Install via npm~

**Not available atm.**

```bash
npm i -D @ncap0cpl/goserve
```

#### Build yourself

Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ncpa0cpl/goserve
```

Build the binary

```bash
go build -o ./goserve
```

Install the program in your PATH
Copy the binary to a bin directory (assuming `~/.local/bin` is in your PATH)

```bash
cp ./goserve ~/.local/bin
```

### Usage

```
Usage: goserve [options] [directory]

Options:
  --help              Print this help message.
  --loglevel <level>  The log level. Default: info
  --port <port>       The port to serve on. Default: 8080
  --redirect <url>    Redirect all unmatched routes to a specified url.

Hot Module Reload
  --aw           Alias for '--watch --auto-reload'
  --watch        When enabled, server will send fs events when files are changed. To listen to these add event listeners to `window.HMR` on client side.
  --auto-reload  Automatically inject a script to html files that will reload the page on a 'watch' change event.

Caching
  --maxage <seconds>   The max-age value to set in the Cache-Control header.
  --nocache            Disable caching.
  --noetag             Disable ETag generation.
  --cache:max <MB>     Maximum size of all files in the cache. Default: 100MB
  --cache:flimit <MB>  Maximum size of single file that can be put in cache. Default: 10MB
```

To serve files from the `public` directory of the current directory on port 8000:

```bash
goserve --port 8000 ./public
```

#### Node API

Goserve can also be imported in a Node script and spawned using a provided function.

```javascript
import { serve } from '@ncap0cpl/goserve';

const childProcess = serve("path/to/directory", {
  port: 3000
});
```

#### Options

##### Auto-reload

When auto-reload is enabled, either via `--auto-reload` or `--aw` flag, a script tag will be injected to every ".html" file that will reload the page every time that file is changed. Note that the `--auto-reload` flag must be used alongside the `--watch` flag.

##### Watch mode

When watch mode is enabled, either via `--watch` or `--aw` flag, to every ".html" file a script tag will be injected enabling listening to file changes within the hosted directory.

Listening to these changes can be done by adding event listeners to `window.HMR` object:

```javascript
HMR.onChange((event) => {
  console.log(`file ${event.file} has changed`);
});

HMR.onCreate((event) => {
  console.log(`file ${event.file} has been created`);
});

HMR.onDelete((event) => {
  console.log(`file ${event.file} has been deleted`);
});

HMR.onRename((event) => {
  console.log(`file ${event.oldFile} has been renamed to ${event.file}`);
});

HMR.onCurrentPageChange((event) => {
  console.log(`current page's file has changed`);
});
```
